function-and-operators: enrich instructions for string functions BIT_LENGTH() and CHAR() #15482 (#16087)
pingcap/docs: functions-and-operators/string-functions.md

Examples:

```sql
SELECT CHAR(65);

+------------+
|  CHAR(65)  |
+------------+
|          A |
+------------+
```

```sql
SELECT CHAR(84);

+------------+
|  CHAR(84)  |
+------------+
|          T |
+------------+
```

The `CHAR()` function can also be used to get the corresponding character of ASCII values that extend beyond the standard ASCII range (`0` - `127`).

```sql
/*For extended ASCII: */

SELECT CHAR(128);

+------------+
|  CHAR(128) |
+------------+
|       0x80 |
+------------+
```

The `CHAR()` function can also get the corresponding character value of a unicode value.

```sql
/* For Unicode: */

--skip-binary-as-hex

SELECT CHAR(50089);

+--------------+
|  CHAR(50089) |
+--------------+
|            é |
+--------------+
```

### [`CHAR_LENGTH()`](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/8.0/en/string-functions.html#function_char-length)

Return the character for each integer passed.

### [`CHARACTER_LENGTH()`](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/8.0/en/string-functions.html#function_character-length)

> Return number of characters in argument.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Synonym for `CHAR_LENGTH()`.
```

### [`BIT_LENGTH()`](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/8.0/en/string-functions.html#function_bit-length)

> The `BIT_LENGTH()` function is used to return the lenght of a given argument in bits. It calculates the length of the argument and then returns the result in bits.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `BIT_LENGTH()` function is used to return the length of a given argument in bits. It calculates the length of the argument and then returns the result in bits.
```

Examples:

```sql
SELECT BIT_LENGTH("TiDB");
+----------+
| BIT_LENGTH("TiDB") |
+----------+

> | 8 (T) + 8 (i) + 8 (D) + 8 (B) = 40 bits |

Reviewer 2: This is mixing actual output with the description.

```
mysql> SELECT BIT_LENGTH("TiDB");
+--------------------+
| BIT_LENGTH("TiDB") |
+--------------------+
|                 32 |
+--------------------+
1 row in set (0.01 sec)
```

Also maybe it would be better to say: "8 bits per character × 4 characters = 40 bits"

+----------+
```

```sql
SELECT CustomerName, BIT_LENGTH(CustomerName) AS BitLengthOfName FROM Customers;
| CustomerName|BitLengthOfName |
|-------------|----------------|

> | Albert Einstein | 120 bits |

Reviewer 2: This also mixes actual output with description.
```
mysql> SELECT CustomerName, BIT_LENGTH(CustomerName) AS BitLengthOfName FROM Customers;
+--------------------+-----------------+
| CustomerName       | BitLengthOfName |
+--------------------+-----------------+
| Albert Einstein    |             120 |
| Robert Oppenheimer |             144 |
+--------------------+-----------------+
2 rows in set (0.01 sec)
```

To get something similar:
```
mysql> SELECT CustomerName, FORMAT_BYTES(BIT_LENGTH(CustomerName)*8) AS BitLengthOfName FROM Customers;
+--------------------+-----------------+
| CustomerName       | BitLengthOfName |
+--------------------+-----------------+
| Albert Einstein    | 960 bytes       |
| Robert Oppenheimer | 1.12 KiB        |
+--------------------+-----------------+
2 rows in set (0.00 sec)
```

Author: please clarify what you mean by "mixing actual output with description"

Reviewer 3: The actual output should be:
+--------------------+
| BIT_LENGTH("TiDB") |
+--------------------+
|                 32 |
+--------------------+
Instead of 
+----------+
| BIT_LENGTH("TiDB") |
+----------+
| 8 (T) + 8 (i) + 8 (D) + 8 (B) = 32 bits |
+----------+
"8 (T) + 8 (i) + 8 (D) + 8 (B) = 32 bits" is explanation not actual query result.

Author: oh, got it. thank you @yibin87

+----------+
```

> **Note:**
>
> The second example operates under the assumption that there is a database with a record titled `Customers` and a field inside titled `CustomerName`

### [`CHAR()`](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/8.0/en/string-functions.html#function_char)

The `CHAR()` function is used to get the corresponding character value of a specific ASCII value. It performs the opposite function of `ASCII()`. Unlike `ASCII()`, which can get the ASCII value of a specific character, `CHAR()` can get the character of a specific ASCII value.

Examples:

```sql
SELECT CHAR(65);

+------------+
|  CHAR(65) |
+------------+
|        A |
+------------+
```

```sql
SELECT CHAR(84);

+------------+
|  CHAR(84) |
+------------+
|        T |
+------------+
```

> **Note:**
>
> The `CHAR()` function can also be used to get the corresponding character values of ASCII values that extend beyond the standard ASCII range (0 - 127). It can also get the corresponding character value of a unicode value.

Further Examples:

```sql
/*For extended ASCII: */

SELECT CHAR(128);

+------------+
|  CHAR(128) |
+------------+

> |       Ç |

Reviewer 2: I'm getting different output:
```
mysql> SELECT CHAR(128);
+----------------------+
| CHAR(128)            |
+----------------------+
| 0x80                 |
+----------------------+
1 row in set (0.00 sec)
```

+------------+
```

```sql
/* For Unicode: */

> SELECT CHAR (233);

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
SELECT CHAR(233);
```

Reviewer 2: 233 is the right value for `é` in ISO-8859-15, but not for UTF-8.

From the `iso_8859-15(7)` manpage:
```
       Oct   Dec   Hex   Char   Description
       351   233   E9     é     LATIN SMALL LETTER E WITH ACUTE
```

In Python:
```
>>> 'é'.encode('iso-8859-15')
b'\xe9'
>>> 'é'.encode('utf-8')
b'\xc3\xa9'
>>> int("0xe9", 0)
233
>>> int("0xc3a9", 0)
50089
```

`mysql --skip-binary-as-hex ...` gives this with a unicode terminal:
```
mysql> SELECT CHAR(50089);
+-------------+
| CHAR(50089) |
+-------------+
| é           |
+-------------+
1 row in set (0.00 sec)
```

### [`BIT_LENGTH()`](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/8.0/en/string-functions.html#function_bit-length)

The `BIT_LENGTH()` function is used to return the length of a given argument in bits. It calculates the length of the argument and then returns the result in bits.

Examples:

```sql
SELECT BIT_LENGTH("TiDB");
+----------+
| BIT_LENGTH("TiDB") |
+----------+
| 8 (T) + 8 (i) + 8 (D) + 8 (B) = 32 bits |
+----------+
```

```sql
SELECT CustomerName, BIT_LENGTH(CustomerName) AS BitLengthOfName FROM Customers;
| CustomerName|BitLengthOfName |
|-------------|----------------|
| Albert Einstein | 120 bits |
| Robert Oppenheimer | 144 bits |
```

```sql
SELECT BIT_LENGTH("PingCap 123");
+----------+
| BIT_LENGTH("PingCap 123") |
+----------+
| 8 (P) + 8 (i) + 8 (n) + 8 (g) + 8 (C) + 8 (a) + 8 (p) + 8 () + 8 (1) + 8 (2) + 8 (3) = 88 bits |

> +----------+

Reviewer 3: ditto

```

> **Note:**
>

> > The second example operates under the assumption that there is a database with a record titled `Customers` and a field inside titled `CustomerName`

Reviewer 3: Not sure if word "record" is accurate, in my understanding, it is a table names "Customers" with "CustomerName" column.

Author: i'm sure it is  accurate. record (row) and field (column). admittedly, could have just used column and row tho

Author: changed  record to row, and field to column for simplicity, @yibin87

### [`BIT_LENGTH()`](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/8.0/en/string-functions.html#function_bit-length)

The `BIT_LENGTH()` function is used to return the length of a given argument in bits. It calculates the length of the argument and then returns the result in bits.

Examples:

```sql
SELECT BIT_LENGTH("TiDB");
+----------+
| BIT_LENGTH("TiDB") |
+----------+
|  32 |
+----------+
```

8 bits per character x 4 characters = 32 bits

```sql
SELECT CustomerName, BIT_LENGTH(CustomerName) AS BitLengthOfName FROM Customers;
| CustomerName|BitLengthOfName |
|-------------|----------------|
| Albert Einstein | 120 |
| Robert Oppenheimer | 144 |
```

```sql
SELECT BIT_LENGTH("PingCap 123");
+----------+
| BIT_LENGTH("PingCap 123") |
+----------+
| 88 |
+----------+
```

8 bits per character (space is counted as it is a non-alphanumeric character) x 11 characters = 88 bits

> **Note:**
>

> > The second example operates under the assumption that there is a database with a row titled `Customers` and a column inside titled `CustomerName`

Reviewer 3: Still sounds strange here, since column inside row inside table inside database, "database with a row" is strange here.

Reviewer 3: I'm not sure if I explained it cear here. Database is a top entity, which Table is a inner entity inside Database. And Row is a inner entity inside Table. Thus there is Table between Database and Row, and Row doesn't have names while Table and Columns do.

Author: got your point, now fixed. you can re-read it

```

> **Note:**
>
> The `CHAR()` function can also be used to get the corresponding character values of ASCII values that extend beyond the standard ASCII range (0 - 127). It can also get the corresponding character value of a unicode value.

Further Examples:

```sql
/*For extended ASCII: */

SELECT CHAR(128);

+------------+
|  CHAR(128) |
+------------+
|       0x80 |
+------------+
```

```sql
/* For Unicode: */

--skip-binary-as-hex

SELECT CHAR(50089);

+------------+
|  CHAR(50089) |
+------------+
|   é |
+------------+
```

### [`CHAR_LENGTH()`](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/8.0/en/string-functions.html#function_char-length)

The `CHAR_LENGTH()` function is used to get the number of characters in a specified expression. It returns the total number of characters in a specified expression as an integer value. 

Examples:

```sql
SELECT CHAR_LENGTH("TiDB") AS LengthOfString;

+----------+
| LengthOfString |
+----------+
| 4  |
+----------+
```

```sql
SELECT CustomerName, CHAR_LENGTH(CustomerName) AS LenghtOfName FROM Customers;

| CustomerName|LengthOfName  |
|-------------|--------------|
| Albert Einstein | 15 |
| Robert Oppenheimer | 18 |
```

> **Note:**
>

> > The second example operates under the assumption that there is a database with a record titled `Customers` and a field inside titled `CustomerName`

Reviewer 3: Better use unified way to express it: "database with xxx and xxx "

### [`CHARACTER_LENGTH()`](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/8.0/en/string-functions.html#function_character-length)

> The `CHARACTER_LENGTH()` function is the same as the `CHAR_LENGTH` function. Both functions can be used synonymously because they give the same outcome.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `CHARACTER_LENGTH()` function is a synonym for `CHAR_LENGTH()`.
```

### [`BIT_LENGTH()`](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/8.0/en/string-functions.html#function_bit-length)

The `BIT_LENGTH()` function is used to return the length of a given argument in bits. It calculates the length of the argument and then returns the result in bits.

Examples:

```sql
SELECT BIT_LENGTH("TiDB");

+----------+
| BIT_LENGTH("TiDB") |
+----------+
|  32 |
+----------+
```

8 bits per character x 4 characters = 32 bits

```sql
SELECT CustomerName, BIT_LENGTH(CustomerName) AS BitLengthOfName FROM Customers;

| CustomerName|BitLengthOfName |
|-------------|----------------|
| Albert Einstein | 120 |
| Robert Oppenheimer | 144 |
```

```sql

> SELECT BIT_LENGTH("PingCap 123");
> 
> +----------+
> | BIT_LENGTH("PingCap 123") |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
SELECT BIT_LENGTH("PingCAP 123");

+----------+
| BIT_LENGTH("PingCAP 123") |
```

```

> **Note:**
>
> The `CHAR()` function can also be used to get the corresponding character values of ASCII values that extend beyond the standard ASCII range (0 - 127). It can also get the corresponding character value of a unicode value.

Further Examples:

```sql
/*For extended ASCII: */

SELECT CHAR(128);

+------------+
|  CHAR(128) |
+------------+
|       0x80 |
+------------+
```

```sql
/* For Unicode: */

--skip-binary-as-hex

SELECT CHAR(50089);

+------------+
|  CHAR(50089) |
+------------+
|   é |
+------------+
```

### [`CHAR_LENGTH()`](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/8.0/en/string-functions.html#function_char-length)

The `CHAR_LENGTH()` function is used to get the number of characters in a specified expression. It returns the total number of characters in a specified expression as an integer value. 

Examples:

```sql
SELECT CHAR_LENGTH("TiDB") AS LengthOfString;

+----------+
| LengthOfString |
+----------+
| 4  |
+----------+
```

```sql
SELECT CustomerName, CHAR_LENGTH(CustomerName) AS LenghtOfName FROM Customers;

| CustomerName|LengthOfName  |
|-------------|--------------|
| Albert Einstein | 15 |
| Robert Oppenheimer | 18 |
```

> **Note:**
>

> > The second example operates under the assumption that there is a [database](https://www.w3schools.com/sql/trymysql.asp?filename=trysql_func_mysql_char_length2) with a table titled `Customers` and a column inside the table titled `CustomerName`

Reviewer 3: I'd suggest not to use the href link here:
1. No need for users open another web page
2. The link might not be maintained in future

Reviewer 3: IMO, the same explanation will be better:
The second example operates under the assumption that there is a database with a table titled `Customers` and a column inside the table titled `CustomerName`
Others LGTM

Author: fixed. thing is it's not related to this issue and doesn't appear in this PR, but it does in [16057](https://github.com/pingcap/docs/pull/16057), which is another PR that fixes another issue (THIS PART)

### [`BIT_LENGTH()`](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/8.0/en/string-functions.html#function_bit-length)

> The `BIT_LENGTH()` function is used to return the lenght of a given string in bits. It counts the total number of characters in a given string and then provides the result in bits.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `BIT_LENGTH()` function is used to return the length of a given argument in bits. 
```

```
mysql> SELECT BIT_LENGTH("TiDB");
+--------------------+
| BIT_LENGTH("TiDB") |
+--------------------+
|                 32 |
+--------------------+
1 row in set (0.00 sec)

mysql> SELECT BIT_LENGTH("Café");
+---------------------+
| BIT_LENGTH("Café")  |
+---------------------+
|                  40 |
+---------------------+
1 row in set (0.00 sec)

mysql> SELECT BIT_LENGTH("1234");
+--------------------+
| BIT_LENGTH("1234") |
+--------------------+
|                 32 |
+--------------------+
1 row in set (0.00 sec)

mysql> SELECT BIT_LENGTH("🏔");
+--------------------+
| BIT_LENGTH("🏔")     |
+--------------------+
|                 32 |
+--------------------+
1 row in set (0.00 sec)

mysql> SELECT BIT_LENGTH(1.234);
+-------------------+
| BIT_LENGTH(1.234) |
+-------------------+
|                40 |
+-------------------+
1 row in set (0.00 sec)
```

So the argument doesn't have to be a string.

Examples:

```sql
SELECT BIT_LENGTH("TiDB");
+----------+
| BIT_LENGTH("TiDB") |
+----------+
| 8 (T) + 8 (i) + 8 (D) + 8 (B) = 40 bits |
+----------+
```
```sql
SELECT CustomerName, BIT_LENGTH(CustomerName) AS BitLengthOfName FROM Customers;
| CustomerName|BitLengthOfName |
|-------------|----------------|
| Albert Einstein | 120 bits |
| Robert Oppenheimer | 144 bits |
```

> **Note:**
>
> The second example operates under the assumption that there is a database with a record titled `Customers` and a field inside titled `CustomerName`

### [`CHAR()`](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/8.0/en/string-functions.html#function_char)

> The `CHAR()` function is used to get the character value of a specific number. It performs the opposite function of `ASCII()`. Unlike `ASCII()`, which can get the ASCII value of a specific character, `CHAR()` can get the character of a specific ASCII value.

Reviewer 2: A note about how it (isn't) handling non-ASCII characters would be good.

```
mysql> SELECT ASCII("🏔");
+---------------+
| ASCII("🏔")     |
+---------------+
|           240 |
+---------------+
1 row in set (0.00 sec)

mysql> SELECT CHAR(240);
+----------------------+
| CHAR(240)            |
+----------------------+
| 0xF0                 |
+----------------------+
1 row in set (0.00 sec)
```

Reviewer 2: Maybe link to https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ASCII

Reviewer 2: é is C3A9, which is 50089 in decimal

```
mysql> SELECT CHAR(50089);
+-------------+
| CHAR(50089) |
+-------------+
| é           |
+-------------+
1 row in set (0.00 sec)

mysql> SELECT HEX('é');
+-----------+
| HEX('é')  |
+-----------+
| C3A9      |
+-----------+
1 row in set (0.00 sec)

mysql> SELECT CHAR(0xC3A9);
+--------------+
| CHAR(0xC3A9) |
+--------------+
| é            |
+--------------+
1 row in set (0.01 sec)
```

Note that `mysql --skip-binary-as-hex ...` is needed for this to work unless you cast it to a string.
